= Differences with the java version =

In the Groovy version of Chromattic, the types are not abstract and annotations can be used directly on properties.
The Chromattic engine in the Groovy version is exactly the same than the Java version. Actually Groovy and Java
are interroperable

* Groovy and Java Chromattic objects can be used in the same Chromattic application
* A Chromattic application can be used by both Java or Groovy code

Before reading this part, you should already be familliar with Chromattic described in this guide.
A simple example of code with the Groovy version of Chromattic : ##Page.groovy## (the equivalent of [[Page.java>>#getting_started_page_object]]) in Groovy is

{{code language=GROOVY href="org/chromattic/docs/reference/groovy/Page.groovy"}}{{/code}}

= Building a Groovy project with Chromattic =

Chromattic is plugged to Groovy classes at compile time (this operation is based on AST transformation). So the only thing
to do is to have the //chromattic.groovy// jar in the compilation classpath.

== Building with Maven ==

Just add the Maven dependencies in the pom.xml.

{{code language=XML}}...
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.chromattic</groupId>
  <artifactId>chromattic.groovy</artifactId>
  <score>compile</score>
</dependency>
...{{/code}}

== Building with ANT ==

Add the //chromattic.groovy// jar in the classpath in the //build.xml//.

{{code language=XML}}
<classpath>
  <pathelement path="${classpath}"/>
  <pathelement location="lib/chromattic.groovy-1.1.0-SNAPSHOT-jar-with-dependencies.jar"/>
</classpath>
{{/code}}

== Compiling with //groovyc// ==

Just add the //chromattic.groovy// jar in the classpath with the ##-classpath## argument
{{code}}groovyc Page.groovy -classpath chromattic.groovy-1.1.0-SNAPSHOT-jar-with-dependencies.jar{{/code}}

= Runtime dependencies =

To use Chromattic, you should have a JCR implementation in the runtime classpath. For example //chromattic.exo// Maven dependency:

{{code language=XML}}
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.chromattic</groupId>
  <artifactId>chromattic.exo</artifactId>
  <scope>runtime</scope>
</dependency>
{{/code}}

= How to access to JCR data through Chromattic objects in Groovy =

Simply access to the property content thanks to getter, setter or property (((
{{code language=groovy}}...
/**
  * Initialize "page", an instance of the Page type.
  */

// get the value
String name1 = page.getName()
// or
String name2 = page.name


// set the value
page.setName("foo")
// or
page.name = "bar"
...{{/code}})))