Chromattic development started during July 2009 when I had to develop a rich model called MOP (Model Object for Portals)
that was persisted in a JCR repository. The development started with the prototyping of the model as a set of Java
interfaces, just bare interfaces plus a set of value objects. Once I was satisfied with the initial model, I decided
it was time to write the JCR persistence implementation and quickly I realized that I would not be able to achieve it
without investing a lot of time in writing very error prone code.

Obviously the idea of using a mapping framework stroke me and I fell in the Not Invented Here syndrom for some reason.

If you are reading this chapter it's probably because you are not yet convinced that Chromattic can do something for
you (if you are convinced, read the chapter so you can convince other persons) and //some reason// is probably not
enough to convince you.

JCR defines a set of base node types for modelling a file system and that's a perfect example to use:

* ##nt:hierarchyNode##: a super type for file and folder, its purpose is mainly to define a common node type for children
of a folder
* ##nt:resource##: a node type for modelling a resource, basically it's data
* ##nt:file##: a node type for a file, it contains data via a ##jcr:content## child node of type ##nt:resource##
* ##nt:folder##: a node type for a folder with children of type ##nt:hierarchynode##

The following examples list the content of a directory structure and we have two versions, one using the native JCR API and one
using Chromattic objects mapped onto the same node types.

{{example title="Directory listing with the JCR native API"}}
{{java}}
{@include org.chromattic.docs.reference.motivation.MotivationTestCase#list(javax.jcr.Node)}
{{/java}}
{{/example}}

{{example title="Directory listing with Chromattic objects"}}
{{java}}
{@include org.chromattic.docs.reference.motivation.MotivationTestCase#list(org.chromattic.ext.ntdef.NTHierarchyNode)}
{{/java}}
{{/example}}

There are several difference between the two versions, but the most important one is **type safety**. The JCR
version use ##javax.jcr.Node## objects and the main drawback is that the effective type of a node is never known
until runtime. Chromattic main purpose is to provide type safety to Java programs that use JCR:

* The ##list## method argument is typed with ##NTHierarchyNode## and that guarantees that the method will never
be invoked with an appropriate node type, this guarantee is enforced during the compilation of any program that wants
to invoke the ##list## method.
* The ##instanceof## operator is what a Java developer uses when he wants to determine the type of an object. The JCR
version performs the same operation but there is more work to do.

The second benefit of Chromattic is productivity: modern IDEs provide an impressive set of tools that gives much power
to the developer, Chromattic type safe and object oriented nature fits perfectly here:

* A Chromattic object is a Java object and the IDE is able to perform code completion.
* Refactoring is a commodity offered by any IDE that can be leveraged on a Chromattic model.

The third benefit of Chromattic is to hide the quircks of the native JCR API. This benefit is probably very subjective as
one developer may feel very comfortable with the JCR API. The biased truth is that ** I ** am not:

* Any operation provided by the JCR native API throws a checked ##RepositoryException##. Checked versus non
checked exception is a great Java debate, I don't have a good answer for it. I feel comfortable with both, because
I think that if it used correctly, it gives good results. In the case of JCR, I don't think it was a good idea, as
it force the control flow of the application that has to either rethrow it and deal with it.
* I would define a good API as an intuitive API, specially when it comes of the part of the API that are the most used.
For instance in the former example, the obtention of a node property uses three operations (##hasProperty##, ##getProperty## and ##getString##)
where it could use just one.

There are many other reasons left to use Chromattic, let's discover them in this guide. 